The next thing is using
a file system as a database.
So let's do that.
This is a place where you
do wanna follow along.
This is gonna be for our note taking app.
So ignore this test JS thing
that I did in this demo stuff.
But now what we wanna do is on
the root of our file of our project,
not inside the source folder, but
on the root I'll just add it here.
We're gonna add a db.json file or json.
And like I said, put it on the routes.
I'm gonna drag mine down.
It is okay.
So, db.json file.
Let's put some json in here that says
notes and then an empty array and
this is going to be our database.
That's an array with notes, it's super simple.
The next thing you wanna do is
we're gonna create our db.js file.
And inside of here we're
gonna do a few things.
We're gonna create some utility
functions to help us interact
with our database file.
So we don't have to write this from
scratch every time we want to interact
with a database we can choose
these abstracted methods.
You could think of it as like an ORM,
I guess, for our database.
If you don't know what an ORM is,
it's basically an SDK for your database.
That's the best way I can describe it.
It's like you want to talk
to your database, but
maybe you don't want to write raw SQL.
Cool, use this SDK.
That's an ORM.
So this is like the SDK for our database.
Our database, which is a file.
So we're gonna do that.
So let's create a db.js
in our source folder and
we're gonna use the fs module
from node fs promises.
If you don't use promises, 'cause you
just like callbacks, you go for
it, I won't stop you.
The next thing is we just wanna just
hard code the path to our database,
Which is going to look
exactly like I had before,
which is just basically using, okay,
new URL and then the path to it,
which will be up one
database.json,import.metadata url.pathname.
So we get the DB path.
And then we just want to create an export
three functions basically right?
So one function is gonna be able
to get the entire database.
Another function is gonna be able to
take in a completely new database and
write it so overwrite the database.
And the last one will just be able to
insert one new note, basically, so
I wanna append it to the notes
column in the database.
So let's do that.
So export const
getDB=async function here.
And, Yeah, my AI is already
trying to write the code for me.
So I'm trying to tell it to go away
because I don't want to do it that way.
So basically what we wanna do here is
rerun these fs to read the JSON file,
we wanna parse it and
we wanna give it back.
So let's do that.
So we'll say const db = await fs.readFile,
we wanna pass in a db path like that.
And then this utf-8 thing
this is just the encoding.
So strings and programming have
different types of encoding.
So think of an encoding as in like
the best way I can describe an encoding,
it's like us humans know
different languages.
Computers know different languages for
strings as well.
For instance, an emoji is in
a different encoding than an alphabet.
That's a different encoding, right?
So this is, utf-8 is the encoding
that we know as humans, basically.
It's human words basically.
So we want to utf-8, encode that, get the
file, so now we have the database there.
And then we just want to return
the database after we parse it into
JavaScript.
If you don't know what parse is,
it just takes a JSON string and
turns it to a JSON object.
Or a JavaScript object, I should say.
Cool, so that's how we can get DB.
The next one is going to be saving the DB.
So this is the opposite.
I want to take in a DB object,
turn it into JSON.
And then save into the database
onto that that file right so
we'll say export const save DB And
this is gonna take a database and
instead it will say, const all.
We could just say await fs.writeFile,
DB_PATH stringify.
So I have these extra
arguments here in stringify.
This is formatting,
this is basically saying,
take the stringify and
space everything out by two spaces.
So it looks good.
If I don't do that, it'll just save
it all on one line, which is fine.
But when I go look at the file,
it bugs me.
I hate that it looks like that way.
So this is making it save like spaced
out Json by spaces tabbed out, I guess.
So that's what that's doing.
You can put frou if you prefer four.
I like two, so we're gonna save that.
And then I guess we might as well
just return the DB that you gave us.
So we can just say, return that DB.
And then the last thing is
basically like appending to it.
So there is an fs.append file.
We probably don't want to do that.
Because append file doesn't
know anything about structure.
It doesn't know that
something in there is JSON.
It's just gonna add to the bottom of
the file, which is what append means.
And we don't want to add
to the bottom of this file
that would just put something here so
we can't use append file.
So that means in order to add
something to this array we have to
either be really good with regex,
which I'm not about to do,
or turn this JSON into JavaScript.
And then just push something in the array
and then turn it back into JSON and
save it.
Probably makes the most sense.
So let's just do that.
So we'll say export const insertDB and
this is also async and it takes a note and
the first thing is we need
to get the db all right.
So we can use our functions that we
created db = awaits get db okay,
look I don't want you doing all this for
me go away.
So it's like, take it, do it.
Okay, so we got the DB.
The next thing we want to
do is db.notes.push, and
this note like that,
so we can push that in.
Basically, all we need to
do now is just save it, and
then we can just return the note itself.
So I can say, await, save the db,
the entire database since we modified it,
and then just return the note
that you sent us anyway.
>> Does read file get all the contents and
then close the file handle?
Correct, who is asking that?
How do they know about opening and
closing?
That person used another language before?
So yes, it does, it's not open anymore.
It's not like a stream.
Yeah, that's why it's non
blocking because opening and
closing a file handle is very expensive.
So, does it make sense like
why we made these functions
because in a minute
we're going to be like.
If you look at our commands these
commands do things like creating a new
note means we need to put something
in that file getting all notes
means we need to get
everything from the file.
Finding something means we need to get
everything from the file, filter it
you know and then put it back remove
is like same thing it's filtering but
remove it when you find it.
This web one will just get all of them so
that's just an all and
then clean means remove everything.
So we were gonna be using a bunch of
repetitive logic over and over again.
And we didn't want to
write it that many times.
So I put it in another file,
and now it's a module.
So now because these are exported,
we can import them wherever we need to.
So we could just import these directly
into our commands and put them here.
But I'm going to write one
more level of abstraction.
That uses these DB commands and they will
use those methods inside the command.
I still think the DB functions as great
as they are as an abstraction from
the database file is still a little too
generic for what we need for notes.
Notes still need a little more Polish on
them and I don't want that to be specific
to the database files because for instance
let's say we we went to the database.
And we had something else in here like
users right I don't want to put note logic
inside of these functions because I want
these functions to work for users too.
I have the word note here.
I guess this is a little bit hard-coded,
but we could abstract that out too, but
everything else is pretty generic.
So in order to keep it that way, I'm goNNA
create another level of abstraction that's
specific just to notes, and it will
use these generic functions instead.